README.md, before:

# Machine Learning assisted heat detection

## Setup on local machine

Create virtual environment
```
python3 -m venv .env
```
Activate virtual environment
```
source .env/bin/activate
```
Install dependencies
```
pip install -Ur requirements.txt
```
or if you only need minimal dependencies for preprocessing
```
pip install -Ur requirements_preprocessing.txt
```
Run setup.py in develop mode
```
python setup.py develop
```

## Running everything in a container

If rawdata.hdf5 file is present, it should be placed in 
```
ml_heat/ml_heat/__data_store__/rawdata.hdf5.
```
before building the container so the container can mount it.

Build docker container
```
docker build -t ml_heat_image .
```

Run docker container and attach to it
```
docker run -it -v ${PWD}/ml_heat/__data_store__:/ml_heat/ml_heat/__data_store__ --privileged ml_heat_image
```
Note that inside the container, you have to substitute `python3` for `python`.


## Run Tests
```
pytest tests/
```

## Download data

This step is only possible with developer access to smaxtec google cloud (not necessary if rawdata.hdf5 is already present)

Establish port forwarding into the cluster
```
kubectl get pods
kubectl port-forward {podname} 8787:8787
```
Download data
```
python ml_heat/data_loading/get_data.py
```

## Prepare data

This step uses the downloaded rawdata, generates a few features and puts the data into a pandas dataframe ready for use

Perform preprocessing & data cleaning
```
python ml_heat/preprocessing/transform_data.py
```

Commit message:

fixed transform_data against pandas v1.0

README.md, after:

# Machine Learning assisted heat detection

## Setup on local machine

Create virtual environment
```
python3 -m venv .env
```
Activate virtual environment
```
source .env/bin/activate
```
Install dependencies
```
pip install -Ur requirements.txt
```
or if you only need minimal dependencies for preprocessing
```
pip install -Ur requirements_preprocessing.txt
```
Run setup.py in develop mode
```
python setup.py develop
```

## Running everything in a container

If rawdata.hdf5 file is present, it should be placed in 
```
ml_heat/ml_heat/__data_store__/rawdata.hdf5.
```
before building the container so the container can mount it.

Build docker container
```
docker build -t ml_heat_image .
```

Run docker container and attach to it
```
docker run -it -v ${PWD}/ml_heat/__data_store__:/ml_heat/ml_heat/__data_store__ --privileged ml_heat_image
```
Note that inside the container, you have to substitute `python3` for `python`. These instructions should also work with podman instead of docker.


## Run Tests
```
pytest tests/
```

## Download data

This step is only possible with developer access to smaxtec google cloud (not necessary if rawdata.hdf5 is already present)

Establish port forwarding into the cluster
```
kubectl get pods
kubectl port-forward {podname} 8787:8787
```
Download data
```
python ml_heat/data_loading/get_data.py
```

## Prepare data

This step uses the downloaded rawdata, generates a few features and puts the data into a hdf5 database that can be read with vaex

Perform preprocessing & data cleaning
```
python ml_heat/preprocessing/transform_data.py
```
